# Historical Trends
The project finds points of interest in the stock data and see if it correlates with the news. 


# Running
## Cassandra
1. Create a directory on the host where Cassandra container will store its data, e.g. `/data/cassandra`
1. Run Cassandra container with: 
```bash
docker run -p 9042:9042 --rm --name cassandra -v PATH_TO_CASSANDRA_DIR_CREATED:/var/lib/cassandra -d cassandra:3.11
```

You can check if Cassandra is running by executing Cassandra shell in the container:
```bash
docker exec -it cassandra cqlsh
``` 

All the following Spark jobs should be run in the order they're described, because consecutive
jobs make use of the results generated by previous jobs. 

## CsvCassandraImporter
Make sure Cassandra is running! 

Before you run the program, modify 12th line:
```scala
val projectPath = "C:/Projects/historical_trend"
```
And put there a path from your own machine. It's used to create proper paths to csv files.

During first execution `stock` keyspace should be created and csv files should be loaded into Cassandra in the form of 4 tables: `dow30`,
`historical_prices`, `nasdaq` and `sp500`.


## NewYorkTimesDownloader
This job will import data about articles from NYT API and store them in the file. You can specify number
of months back from current day to download data for and the path to the file where the results will be stored.
```scala
val MONTHS_BACK_NUM = 12
val RESULT_PATH_FILE = "/some/path"
```

## NewYorkTimesImporter
This job will import the data from the file containing NYT articles data into the cassandra table.
You have to specify the path to the file.
```scala
val dataFilePath = "/path/to/the/file"
```

## DiffCounter
This job will compute new _diff_ tables containing additional information about the differences
between the prices in adjacent dates.

## TopDiffArticleMatcher
This job will create 8 JSON files containing the top 30 most interesting stock market events with
corresponding data on New York Times articles. If you want to change the location where the files
are stored you should modify following lines:
```scala
.save(diffTableName + "_nyt_diff_close_asc")
```

# Running frontend
In order to run frontend, make sure that mongodb is installed and it is running in the background.
In the folder ```Frontend```, there is ```requirements.txt``` which defines all the requirements needed for frontend application to run.

Once all the prerequisites are installed. Follow the instructions to run the flask application.

Go to the terminal and go to the frontend folder. Run the following commands :

```python3 jsonTomongo.py```

```python3 app.py```

This will run the server. Follow the link the terminal which will redirect you to the web page.

